The laboratories
are smack right in the middle of the ship on the main
deck and you get exactly the same kind of
treatment. If this were a commercial vessel that
would be the engine room and the wells above the
engine room and you'd be working in the bow or the
stern.
And it's awfully nice when people come back from a
cruise and say, what a wonderful vessel this is.
Well, the reason it's a wonderful vessel is it was
built from scratch as an oceanographic vessel.
And a lot of care and experience went into placing
the various units, placing priorities on space
and things like that. And when you begin to design a
vessel that you go through and say, we have to have
these X number of things. We have to have trawls,
for example. We have to have nets. And we put these
here. But if you have to... What you do is you get
your scientists together, and it takes a period of
maybe a year or maybe even longer, and you just
thrash out one item at a time. Everything is a
compromise. One fellow wants one thing, somebody
else wants something else, and you eventually,
through persuasion and argument, come up with a
compromise in each unit. When we got the Wacoma...
It was a stripped vessel. It wasn't even
completed. And we spent about $850,000
outfitting it with the scientific equipment and
gear. And it took a lot of heartache to decide how to
spend these resources because one person wants
this and somebody else wants something
different. And every lab goes through the same
sort of thing. Now, do you check on its progress
almost each day? Do you stay beside it, or do you
just? No, the architect does this? We have our own
clerk of the works that usually does this. We
usually have an engineer that is right there all
the time. What about a ship's captain? How do you
decide and pick that? Well, we don't have to very
often because we still have the captain that...
One of our captains has been with us about 15 years
now, and the other one's been since we got the first
big ship. He came aboard, we'd had it for about two
months, and he's been with us, and this has been 12
or 13 years. We do not have a very big overturn in our
ship's officers, and they tend to stay.
Most of them live in Newport and have families, and
almost all of our crews are ex-combatants.
service people rather than from the merchant
marine. And I think they tend to be a little more,
well, they like a home life a little bit more than
the merchant mariners do. How often, how many days
per year are you out to sea in your ship? Am I
personally? No. The ship is usually out in about
250 days, the big ship and about 175 for the little
one. It just got back from six months off South
America. It left on the 10th of January and got back
on the 3rd of July. And then I take it you take crews
out and back. That is, people will be on it about six
weeks, be replaced by others, or will somebody
spend six months on that vessel? The crew spends
six months. We have a rule that we can't keep them
longer than that without shipping them home for
two weeks. So we tend to take a long cruise every
other year. We work locally on cruises not more
than two months long, maybe go to Hawaii or Alaska,
but then every other year we plan a long cruise.
usually split up into four or five parts, and a
different group goes and exchanges.
We had chemists part of the time, geologists,
geophysicists, and physical people were our last
group.
And does it seem to you, this is a fair question,
does it seem to you there are less tensions between
crews and ships and so forth now than there were
when you first started? Less tensions? Less
tension, yes. Between being at sea longer, having
crowded ships, or what? Conditions were pretty
primitive when I started out. We started out in EWS
Scripps, which is about 100 feet long.
Had a crew of about five people. It was really kind
of dangerous. I'm surprised we didn't lose
ourselves. And then we moved up to the first of the
Revell fleet, the old Baird and Horizon. They
really weren't very comfortable. Diesel fumes
all the time, and quarters were right up in the bow,
and you were seasick most of the time. And now our
ships are much more comfortable.
How long did you stay on those first cruises? As a
rule, most ships, this is just a general number,
can't stay at sea for more than about six weeks at
the most. And this is about the maximum that people
put up with each other, too. If they're out that
long, then they're all at each other's throats,
crew and size. So the normal leg is about a month
long, for us at any rate. And I think this is true for
most of the other labs. They tend to work for a month
and then come into a port. OK. And plan the cruise
this way. Right.
Get my 15 second delay here.
Now we were talking really about outfitting ships
and time spent at sea. And you had explained that
the staff remained about the same all the time and
that that after a certain amount of time at sea,
usually a month, that the tensions increased
enough where you thought you had to come back to
port. Is this...
Excuse me. Is there anything else you would like to
add about vessels, outfitting vessels? I don't
think so, unless you have a specific question. No,
the next series of questions I have concern...
curriculum, really, when you arrived here and
established your department. Was there any
particular weakness you thought that appeared in
oceanography as a whole that you tried to aim your
department towards? Well, I've been a little bit
insistent on one point, and that is that no matter
what branch of oceanography a student goes in, he
has to take the fundamental four basic courses in
biology, chemistry, geology, and physical
oceanography. And that is not generally held in
most places, but I feel that anybody that's
working in the ocean, it ought to have at least
knowledge of some of the literature and
nomenclature in all fields. And so beside this,
you had no particular design or goal for the
curriculum? No, not in particular. Of course, I
came from Scripps, so I designed it pretty much
after what I'd seen then. Okay.
Scripps, like the University of Oregon, or like
Oregon State, excuse me, in our university seems
to stress research probably more than some of the
other institutions. Do you suppose that's why
that you stressed research more here, or was it
more simply funding? I think it was funding,
primarily, that gave us the stress there. But we
have not neglected our educational side at all. I
think we have perhaps as many students as anyone.
We have about 120 students and put a lot of effort
into it. I just wanted to make sure we got that point
down on tape. Now, I only really have two or three
more questions then, and this is a different kind
of nature of things.
Perhaps again speculative questions if you would
like. Do you suppose that now that it seems as if
oceanography and meteorology are more
intertwined than ever before, Do you suppose
there will be more chances for oceanography to
perhaps tie itself up in joint projects with NASA
and these sorts of projects in terms of weather
predicting? Do you see more interest? I don't
really see. I've
never thought about this, but I don't see any real
prospect. There have only been a few teams where
both are on it. The meteorologists seem to be a
little independent of the oceanographers.
That's perfect. There have been several
complaints, I know, among people working in the
atmosphere and the ocean about the lack of
cooperation between two groups. Have you felt
this has limited you in your career? No. Not any at
all? I don't think so, because I consider myself a
meteorologist. I'm a fellow of the American
Meteorological Society. I've been on their
boards and committees, and I just work in both
fields. Okay. But a person without this training
might not feel free to do this. Now, is there
anything you'd like to add to the table? What have I
missed? I think you've done a pretty thorough job.
I don't think I have any particular message for
posterity. No, you can think of nothing you'd like
to say to future historians. No, not in
particular. I think the primary ingredient of
success in any field is just plain hard work, and I
think that shows. And that's just what you would
attribute your success to? I think so, yeah. I
couldn't disagree more than that.